---
title: Syllabus
course:
  term: Spring 2017
  description: "**The History of Rhetoric** is designed to introduce students to the
    study of rhetoric from the clasiccal period until the end of the 19th century.\n"
  number: ENGL 353
  title: History of Rhetoric
instructors:
- name: Andrew Pilsch
  email: apilsch@tamu.edu
  office:
  - hours: ''
    location: W 12-3 [LAAH 417](http://aggiemap.tamu.edu/?bldg=0275)
layout: syllabus
---


# Asking Good Discussion Questions

This is a list of tips for formulating good discussion questions as part of your rhetorical term presentation.

I have sourced this list from ["We Aren’t Here to Learn What We Already Know" by Kyla Wazana Tompkins](http://avidly.lareviewofbooks.org/2016/09/13/we-arent-here-to-learn-what-we-know-we-already-know/).

* Make your discussion question simple, straightforward and jargon-free.
* Proofread your questions so that you catch grammar and spelling mistakes.
* Make your questions open-ended, i.e. not answerable with fact or by direct and immediate reference to the text.
* Make sure your question doesn’t rely on information the rest of the class doesn’t have, OR give the class enough information and background to be able to engage the question. Make sure the question is answerable to start with, i.e., is not vague and does not rely on facts or assumptions not addressable within the confines of our class conversation.
* Make reference to the text with quotes or page numbers: direct the class to look at a relevant passage, read it together out loud, and drill down into the writing and sentence structure itself to get at the problem you are looking at.
* A good discussion question reframes some of the problems of the text and then tries to get at internal logical problems and paradoxes or to think through the consequences, implications and applications of the theory.
* As such, questions about “experience” or “responses” or “feelings” tend not to be helpful questions – try to step back from personal responses and instead focus on the intellectual shape of the ideas and argument.
* Often we are tempted to ask the “what about” question: e.g., what about the people who are excluded from this theory? Although not an unreasonable question, asked in this manner this is not really a sophisticated question because it doesn’t open up conversation. The only answer to “what about” is: they aren’t there. More productive is to ask: how do the exclusions at the heart of this work facilitate certain conclusions, problems or paradigms, what are these paradigms and what happens when we consider this theory in a broader context? What would this theory look like if re-written from a different point in history, different assumptions about political economy, etc.?
* t’s not the worst idea to make sure you have some thoughts about how to answer your questions before sending them on to your colleagues. However, sometimes you are just really stumped and need to work through this question with your classmates. That’s okay too.
* Which brings me to: it is often smart and productive to write a preamble to a question. That preamble might be a short intellectual history of your questions, it might contextualize the text you are working with, it might scaffold the question you want to ask by referring to other texts or many points in the same text.  Don’t make this preamble so long that no-one can excavate the original question, however. Also….
* If you can answer your question while you are writing it, you probably need to just state your point of view and move on to another, related, question.
* Sometimes you are stuck with an instinct, a hunch, a nagging feeling and a half-formed question and you simply can’t move forward without thinking about it out loud. Bring those seemingly half-formed thoughts to the class: we will figure the direction or shape of your question together.
* Finally: when you don’t get it, you don’t get it. Ask for help from the professor or your classmates, and feel free and supported in bringing your “I Don’t Get It” questions to class. We will all profit from these acts of intellectual humility and generosity.





# Books
{:.page-header}

The majority of texts for this class are available online or, if not linked on the [schedule](schedule.html), as PDFs available on our [eCampus](http://ecampus.tamu.edu) site.

Two required textbooks are available for purchase at the campus bookstore.

*You **must** buy these two editions of Plato. Other translations will not be acceptable for class.*

* Plato, *Gorgias*, Tr: Donald J. Zeyl, ISBN 0872200167
* Plato, *Phaedrus*, Tr: Alexander Nehamas & Paul Woodruff, ISBN 0872202208


# Course Policies

{% include policies.md %}



# Assignments



##  Assignments
{:.page-header}

These are the assignments that will make up your grade in this class.

## Turn-in Procedures

All assignments will be turned in on [eCampus](https://ecampus.tamu.edu) to the appropriate drop box under the "Assignments" sidebar link. **Do not** bring a printed copy or email me your assignment.

### Assignment Values

| Assignment            | Due Date | Value |
|-----------------------|----------|-------|
| Participation         | Daily    | 25%   |
| Writing Assignment #1 | 03/03    | 25%   |
| Writing Assignment #2 | 04/21    | 25%   |
| Writing Assignment #3 | 05/05    | 25%   |
{:.mdl-data-table.mdl-js-data-table.mdl-data-table--wide}

### Participation

Your participation grade has three components:

1. Attendance
2. Participating in Class Discussion
3. Class Discussion Leader (2)

For **attendance**, you are simply required to show up to class (see the [policy](policies.html) page for more information on this). For **participating in class discussion**, I ask that you speak up and offer your opinion on the texts we are discussing. These texts are not facts; they are not perfect and there are certainly no right answers. Offer what you think!

The final, and most heavily weighted, component of your participation grade is the **class discussion leader**. For two readings, you will serve as a discussion leader. In a presentation at the beginning of class, you will identify one moment (a passage or an idea) that you think is the most interesting about the reading. You will then explain why you think this is interesting or important. Finally, you will ask the class one discussion question that will serve as a way of opening up the discussion. You probably don't know how to ask a good discussion question, **[read these tips before writing your discussion question](questions.html)**. This should take around 2-3 minutes and is meant to be fairly informal. However, you are **required** to provide me with some written account of your presentation on the morning of the day you are presenting, so that I can be prepared to incorporate your ideas and your discussion question into class.

### Writing Assignment #1 -- Socrates Today

We have read three Socratic dialogs. In these Socrates debates some question pertinent to the nature of reality with a variety of interlocutors. Given that this form of debate is central to the Western conception of rhetoric, what might Socrates ask after today? Do you think questions of what is good or just still things we would debate? Or would Socrates be more concrete? Would the medium for dialog change?

For this assignment, write a 2-3 page essay explaining what you think a Socratic dialog might look like today in terms of both form and content. Cite evidence from the dialogs we have read to support your claims and bear in mind the characteristics of the dialogs we have discussed. Then produce a sample of this dialog (written or otherwise) that should run to about 4-5 pages of "text."

### Writing Assignment #2 -- An Abundant Style

We have read Erasmus's *De Copia*, which constitutes an almost embarrassingly detailed account of how to be eloquent. In this text, Erasmus provides examples of copia, little textual machines for producing variations on a topic so that the rhetor may appear spontaneous.

For this assignment, imagine a copia that might be needed today. What situations require a variety of spontaneous, eloquent responses? How else might a person appear eloquent? Compose a copia and then complete the exercise with 100 or so variations on the form.

#### Document Elements

1. **Introduction**—1-2 paragraphs explaining the value of your copia or the use of it or situations in which one might need an abundant style.
1. **Description**—As with the beginning of the Book XXXIII in *De Copia*, break down each term in your **copia*, explaining how the user might expand each term.
1. **Examples**—Provide ~100 examples of the expansion of your *copia*. Remember that you can vary the sentence structure as well as the words themselves.

#### Resources

* [@YourLetterBot](https://twitter.com/YourLetterBot)
* [My Copia Ate My Homework](http://oncomouse.github.io/homework-copia)
* [Corpora Archive](https://github.com/dariusk/corpora)—This is a collection of lists of verbs, roughly categorized into a variety of topics. May be useful for generating abundance.
* [Thesaurus](http://www.thesaurus.com/)—A Thesaurus, which supplies synonyms to words, is going to be very useful for this task.

### Writing Assignment #3 -- Rhetoric Today


We have studied a variety of models for eloquence throughout this class, in addition to attempting to update some of these forms to the present. However, what do you find lacking? What are other ways of being persuasive today?

For this final assignment, you have three options:

1. Devise a rhetorical exercise for the needs of rhetors today and write an explanation of why you think your exercise is useful.
2. Following some of the less pedagogical examples we have studied, compose a piece (written or otherwise) that embodies some aspect of eloquence today. Also, include a 1-page explanation of what aspects of contemporary eloquence you are embodying in your text.
3. Choose two texts we have studied in class and compare and contrast their discussion of one of the following topics
	1. Style
	1. The Ideal Orator
	1. Morals and the Orator
	1. Content of Rhetoric
	1. Goal of Oratory

For any of these three assignments **clearly** indicate which assignment you are completing. You should be writing between **4 and 6 pages** of content for this assignment.


# Schedule

{% include schedule.html schedule="engl353spr2017" %}