---
title: ENGL 334, Spring 2020
number: ENGL 334
term: Spring 2020
description: 'Origins and development of the science fiction genre.

  '
instructor:
  name: Andrew Pilsch
  email: apilsch@tamu.edu
  office_hours: Online by request
layout: syllabus
---

# *Black God's Drum*, by P. Djèlí Clark
{:.page-header}

## Novel Background

* Published in 2018
* Nominated for Hugo and Nebula (loses to the sequel to the Martha Wells novella we're reading next)
* Published by Tor.com
	* Part of the recent renaissance in short-form SF (stories and novellas)
	* Perhaps 15 years ago, short SF was dying out in favor of novel publication
		* This was mostly due to the decline in magazine reading generally
		* Novel-centric nature of SF was a longer trend starting in the 1960s
	* Recently, the rise of smart phones and e-readers has rejuvenated the market
		* Many online-only SF journals are winning awards and seeing remarkable success
	* Similarly, Tor.com, which is a spin-off from Tor (an established SF publisher), was created as a novella-focused platform, primarily targeting Kindle readers
	* Additionally, as an under-published market, authors have had a lot of success
		* In the last three years, either 4 or 5 of the 6 nominees for both Hugo and Nebulla novella awards have been Tor.com publications
* This represents a growing trend in the shifting manner in which SF is published and consumed.

## Steampunk

* *Black God's Drum* is an example of "steampunk"
* Comparable to Afrofuturism and cyberpunk in that it is also a multimedia project
* Steampunk imagines an alternate 1880s future/present
	* Usually Victorian England
	* American West
* In which Victorian contraptions imagined in period SF (Zeppelins, steam-powered spider walking machines, etc.) and strange scientific theories actually work
* We could also say: it is a modern reimagining of futures using 1880s perspectives on art, style, and technology
	* So, people writing *War of the Worlds* fan fiction
* Also a big deal in art and design
	* Building steam-powered devices
	* Elaborate, fantastic outfits
	* Brass contraptions
	* Clock work devices
	* Lots of Goggles
	* The *Wikipedia* page for [Steampunk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steampunk) has a lot of good images of this stuff
* The term is first coined in 1987 by K.W. Jeter
	* reference to work he (*Moorlock Nights* (1979), *Infernal Devices* (1987)), James Blaylock (*Homunculus* (1986)), and Tim Powers (*The Anubis Gates* (1983)) were all doing at the time.
	* Was originally a tongue-in-cheek reference to cyberpunk: steam instead of computers
	* Why? Now? In the 1980s
		* Think of how mass-produced everything, even people, is in *Neuromancer*. Steampunk comes to celebrate the eccentric, the hand-made, and the unique: tinkerers, crafters.
	* Jeter acknowledges a lot of early references:
		* *Wild Wild West* (TV, 1965-6)
		* Michael Moorcock's *The Warlord of the Air* (1971)
		* Wells, Verne, and [Edisonades](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edisonade) such as Edward Ellis's *The Steam-Man of the Prairies* (1886)
* Term becomes more legitimate when William Gibson and Bruce Sterling publish *The Difference Engine* (1990), which imagines a cyberpunk narrative set in an alternate Victorian London that has working digital computers thanks to Charles Babbage.
* Other Examples of Steampunk
	* Hayao Miyazaki, especially *Howl's Moving Castle* and *Kiki's Delivery Service*
	* Disney's *Treasure Planet* and *Atlantis*
	* Alan Moore's *League of Extraordinary Gentlemen*
	* Visual Design in *Doctor Who*
	* *Bioshock Infinite*
	* Guy Ritchie's *Sherlock Holmes* movies

## Alternate History

* *Black God's Drum* also imagines an alternate past, in which the history of the Caribbean is very different
* Speculation about the present or past, not the future
* Popularized by
	* Ward Moore's *Bring the Jubilee* (1953) in which the confederacy wins the US Civil War
	* Keith Laumer's *Worlds of Imperium* (1961)
	* Philip K. Dick's *The Man in the High Castle* (1962)
* Speculation about the nature of causality
* How is alternate history SF? How is it not?

## Afrofuturism, Steampunk, and Alternate History in *Black God's Drum*

* I'm interested in Clark's novella as Afro-retrofuturism
	* Building an alternate past from the experiences of the African diaspora
	* But also built on a particular Victorian imagination

## Themes

* Steampunk:
	* 7 ("The night in ... the Dead City")
	* 8 ("Better than ... for a Thieving Boss")
	* 8-9 ("I can count ... are to see")
	* 15 ("I change my route ... do without.")
		* Henry Mayhew's [*London Labour and the London Poor*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Labour_and_the_London_Poor) was an important sourcebook for early Steampunk
		* Described a variety of jobs the poor did in London
	* 17 ("Best watch ... on my skin")
		* Magic is often an element in steampunk narratives
		* Does this change the novel's SF qualities?
	* 35-6 ("Her right ... my business")
	* 70 ("Drapeto gas ... at the corner of her lips")
	* 95-6 ("He didn't ... slow and building")
* Climate:
	* 7-8 ("Les Grand Murs ... like a bowl")
	* 45 ("No one schupid ... shaking her head")
	* This novella does interesting things with the recent history of New Orleans, especially Katrina. How does that factor into Clark's novella?
* Oya
	* 10 ("When I open ... to mean.")
	* 16 ("Best watch where ... bumps on my skin")
	* 40 ("The captain's head ... eyes blazing.")
	* 47-8 ("I'm not one ... I answer")
* Civil War
	* 11-2 ("These men ... in New Orleans")
* Alternate History
	* 19 ("There's Prussians ... red uniforms")
	* 20 ("New Orleans ... open port")
	* 30-1 ("I used to ask ... would say.")
	* 43 ("If it's so powerful ... on your airship.")
	* 44-5 ("The captain nods ... was born")
* Afrofuturism
	* 31 ("In Haiti ... catch on")
	* 32 ("That last part ... go cold inside")
	* 36-7 ("The magic of those ... what that means")
	* 39 ("I'm half expecting ... one you hear about")
	* 100 ("We change ... your protection")
* Magic
	* 60 ("The captain ... to figure out")
	* 63 ("The captain looks ... odd.")
	* 86 ("So you got dem ... the folk magic")

## Conclusions

Clark's novella is interesting in that it imagines a future where Haiti is freed through the use of a combination of science and folk magic and in which New Orleans is a free port established after a slave revolt. Yet in certain ways the history of slavery that remains and has been technologized is even more horrifying given its continuation post-Civil-War. Why do this? Clark's alternate history is not so much wish-fulfillment as it is a survey of many aspects of African diasporic experience in America and the Caribbean. So in that way, Clark is repurposing Afrofuturist ideas in the context of Steampunk.

  # Books

  

## Books to Buy

* *A Princess of Mars* by Edgar Rice Burroughs
* *Ubik* by Philip K. Dick
* *The Left Hand of Darkness* by Ursula K. LeGuin
* *Neuromancer* by William Gibson
* *Black God's Drums* by P. Djèlí Clark
* *All Systems Red* by Martha Wells

## Further Reading

*I prepped **way** too much material for this course, so here is a list of stories that did not make it onto the syllabus, but probably should have.*

* Stanley Weinbaum, "A Martian Odyssey"
* John W. Campbell, "Twilight"
* C.L. Moore, "No Woman Born"
* Philip Jose Farmer, ["Sail On! Sail On!"](http://producer.csi.edu/cdraney/2014/278/resources/farmer_sf-story(sail-on).pdf)
* James Tiptree Jr., ["The Last Flight of Dr. Ain"](http://www.lightspeedmagazine.com/fiction/last-flight-doctor-ain/)
* Samuel R. Delany, "Driftglass"
* Ursula K. Le Guin, "The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas"
* Joanna Russ, "Barbarians"
* Octavia Butler, "Bloodchild"
* Margaret Killjoy, ["The Fortunate Death of Jonathan Sandelson"](http://strangehorizons.com/fiction/the-fortunate-death-of-jonathan-sandelson/)
* Mary Robinette Kowal, ["The Lady Astronauts of Mars"](https://www.tor.com/2013/09/11/the-lady-astronaut-of-mars/)
* N.K. Jemisin, Something from *How Long Until Black Future Month?*

# Assignments

## Assignment Values

| Assignment                  | Due Date       | Value |
|-----------------------------|----------------|-------|
| **Modified** Attendance     | Ongoing        |  10%  |
| Short Paper #1              | 02/14          |  30%  |
| Short Paper #2              | 04/08          |  30%  |
| Short Paper #3              | 05/04          |  30%  |
{:.mdl-data-table.mdl-js-data-table.mdl-data-table--wide}

## Assignment Descriptions

These are intended as overviews of the general goals of each assignment. Longer hand-outs will be provided along with discussion of the assignments during class.

### Reading Responses (Modified Attendance)

Due to the cancellation of classes and the move to online only classes for March and April, instead of the remaining attendance grades, I ask you to submit one paragraph of writing each week on Friday before midnight detailing something you found important in the reading from the previous week.

These will be graded on a pass/fail basis and there will be no extensions.

### Short Papers 1-3

Over the course of the semester, you will be asked to write three (3) short (3-4 page) papers in response to course discussion and the readings we are doing in class.

Papers should be formatted using 12pt, Times New Roman font and double spaced with 1-inch margins.

#### Textual Paper

Pick a scene in one of the texts we have read for class. A scene could be a portion of a chapter (3-4 paragraphs) or a paragraph or even a single sentence, but not an entire story or novel chapter. Discuss the stylistic, thematic, and imagistic content of this scene, while also connecting these issues to larger themes within the novel.

This paper uses internal evidence only (or primarily). You will be quoting material from the section in question and then discussing the style, theme, or imagery of the passage as it relates to the larger theme of the work.

#### Research Paper

Choose one of the texts we have read in class. Conduct research into the publication and authoring history of the piece.

Questions to consider:

1. Where was the piece first published?
	* What is the history of that venue?
1. What else is interesting/important about the publication?
	* Was it later adapted into a novel?
	* Was it an early standalone publication?
	* Was it collected in a short story collection?
1. Was the work typical of the author?
	* Is it an exception because of quality? Topic?
	* What can you learn about how the author worked?
1. When the work was published, what else was happening in SF history?
1. What else was the author doing / working on?
1. Was the work published internationally? When?

You may ask other questions as you research, and you are not required to answer all of these questions (you may find that none of these are helpful).

This paper does not advance an argument per se, but will need a thesis that outlines what you plan to focus on. For instance, "this paper considers 'Black Destroyer' by A.E. van Vogt as a classic example of the kind of story John W. Campbell sought out at *Astounding*" would be perfectly fine as a thesis.

Cite your work using MLA 8 citation.

##### Accessing Library Resources Off Campus:

If you need to access library resources from off campus, you have two options, which both have advantages and disadvantages:

1. Use a VPN to access the TAMU network:
	* [Instructions](https://it.tamu.edu/services/network-and-internet-access/virtual-private-networks/virtual-private-network-vpn/)
1. Use EZProxy to access library resources:
	* ["What is EZProxy?"](http://askus.library.tamu.edu/faq/166882)
	* [Library Instructions](http://askus.library.tamu.edu/faq/50901)
	* ["Configure Google Scholar to access library resources"](http://askus.library.tamu.edu/faq/165955)
	* Use an EZProxy browser extension: [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ezproxy-redirect/gfhnhcbpnnnlefhobdnmhenofhfnnfhi?hl=en) or [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/ezproxy-redirect-foxified/)

Personally, I use an EZProxy browser extension because I can never remember to connect to the VPN and I don't use a lot of other TAMU services from home. If you use a lot of other campus-only services, the VPN may be right for you (campus VPN is also good if you need to access anything A&M related on an unsecure connection, like coffee shop wi-fi).

#### Analysis Paper

Pick two works we have read in the class. Also pick a topic that both have in common (whether this topic is content-driven or stylistic) and discuss how the two works are similar and/or different based on their treatment. As an example, you could pick depictions of space travel in two works we have read and discuss how both authors treat this topic differently; you might conclude that there is a changing understanding of technology based on the passage of time between the two works you are considering.

This paper should demonstrate both outside research and thematic analysis, combining the aspects of both previous papers.

# Course Policies

These are the policies that govern our class. You are responsible for knowing the information on this page *before contacting me regarding policy questions*.

## Student Visiting Hours

At the times listed in the sidebar throughout this site, I am in my office and it is your time to come talk to me about anything related (or unrelated) to class. This time is yours, I am not (supposed to be) doing anything else; you will not be interrupting me. If you have questions about class or have other questions I might be able to answer, please drop by.

## Email Hours

I am available to answer email from 9:00am until 5:00pm Monday through Friday. Emails arriving outside of that time will be answered at my earliest convenience, but do not count on a quick answer to emails sent late at night or on the weekends.

## Office Door

If my door is closed and it is not during office hours, please do not knock. I open my door when I'm available to chat outside of office hours, but close my door if I am working and cannot be disturbed.

## Grading

Per university policy, I cannot discuss grades via email. Please visit my office hours if you would like to discuss your grade on an assignment.

### Grade Values

* A 90-100
* B 80-89
* C 70-79
* D 60-69
* F 59 or less

These points will be weighted according to the point breakdown described on [the Assignments page](assignments.html), which will determine your overall final grade.

## Absences

Attendance in class is mandatory and is necessary for you to get what you need out of this course. You may have **2 unexcused absences**. Every absence after 2 will result in a **5 point deduction from your attendance grade**. I must have documentation (doctor’s notes, schedule for sports, etc) for excused absences. Please talk to me in advance if you have any extenuating circumstances.

### Excused Absences

[Student Rule 7](http://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07) covers the cases in which absences will be excused and in which late work will be tolerated. The following conditions will be excused:

* Participation in an activity appearing on the university authorized activity list. (see List of Authorized and Sponsored Activities)
* Death or major illness in a student’s immediate family.  Immediate family may include:  mother, father, sister, brother, grandparents, spouse, child, spouse’s child, spouse’s parents, spouse’s grandparents, stepmother, step-father, step-sister, step-brother, step-grandparents, grandchild, step-grandchild, legal guardian, and others as deemed appropriate by faculty member or student’s academic Dean or designee.
* Illness of a dependent family member.
* Participation in legal proceedings or administrative procedures that require a student’s presence.
* Religious holy day. (See Appendix IV.)
* Injury or Illness that is too severe or contagious for the student to attend class.
* Required participation in military duties.
* Mandatory admission interviews for professional or graduate school which cannot be rescheduled.
* Mandatory participation as a student-athlete in NCAA-sanctioned competition.
* In accordance with Title IX of the Educational Amendments of 1972, Texas A&M University shall treat pregnancy (childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy and recovery therefrom) and related conditions as a justification for an excused absence for so long a period of time as is deemed medically necessary by the student’s physician.  Requests for excused absence related to pregnancy should be directed to the instructor; questions about Title IX should be directed to the University Title IX Coordinator.

### Note About Excused Absences

In the event of a chronic illness or other sudden condition that will result in significant time away from class, please inform me of the situation before you return to class, so that we can work out how to handle the situation before it becomes an issue.

## Late Work

Under Student Rule 7.4, I am under "under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to make up work missed because of an unexcused absence." However, I do accept late work and will take off 5 points for every day late. A paper that would have received an 85% that was 3 days late will receive a 70%.

### Extension Policy

Additionally, if you are falling behind on a project and feel that you are not going to finish on time, email me 24 hours before the assignment is due to request an extension. In this email, propose how many additional days you will need to finish the assignment. Requests for extension that do not contain this information will not be honored.

### Technology

In the 21st century, it is unreasonable to accept "my computer died" as an excuse for late work. If you are working on assignments on a computer, please back up your work offsite. Sites such as [Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/) and [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/) provide space for storing copies of your work; even a USB drive can be enough. I have recently started using [BackBlaze](https://www.backblaze.com/) and found it to be a great and inexpensive online, automated backup. Save multiple times throughout each work session to both your backup and your computer's copy. In this class, I hold you accountable for making sure your technology is working correctly.

## Title IX and Statement on Limits to Confidentiality

Texas A&M University and the College of Liberal Arts are committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws provide guidance for achieving such an environment. Although class materials are generally considered confidential pursuant to student record policies and laws, University employees -- including instructors -- cannot maintain confidentiality when it conflicts with their responsibility to report certain issues that jeopardize the health and safety of our community. As the instructor, I must report (per Texas A&M System Regulation 08.01.01) the following information to other University offices if you share it with me, even if you do not want the disclosed information to be shared:

* Allegations of sexual assault, sexual discrimination, or sexual harassment when they involve TAMU students, faculty, or staff, or third parties visiting campus.

These reports may trigger contact from a campus official who will want to talk with you about the incident that you have shared. In many cases, it will be your decision whether or not you wish to speak with that individual. If you would like to talk about these events in a more confidential setting, you are encouraged to make an appointment with the [Student Counseling Service](https://scs.tamu.edu/).

Students and faculty can report concerning, non-emergency behavior at [http://tellsomebody.tamu.edu](http://tellsomebody.tamu.edu).

## Academic Integrity

**Aggie Honor Code.** "*An Aggie does not lie, cheat, or steal, or tolerate those who do.*" It is the student's responsibility to know the Aggie Honor Code and to understand what constitutes scholastic dishonesty and to avoid it all costs. Anything (particularly plagiarism and cheating on quizzes or projects) that appears to be a violation of the Aggie Honor Code will be reported to the appropriate authorities. For additional information please visit: [http://aggiehonor.tamu.edu/](http://aggiehonor.tamu.edu/).

Also, the following is a helpful resource for describing kinds and severity of plagiarism. Note this graphic is not from A&M, where rules may differ: [http://thevisualcommunicationguy.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/Infographic_Did-I-Plagiarize1.jpg](http://thevisualcommunicationguy.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/Infographic_Did-I-Plagiarize1.jpg)

## Students Needing Support Service

Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a disability or think you may have a disability, please contact Disability Resources in the Student Services Building or at (979) 845-1637 or visit [http://disability.tamu.edu](http://disability.tamu.edu). Disabilities may include, but are not limited to attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability related needs with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.

## University Writing Center

The University Writing Center (UWC), located in 214 Evans Library and 205 West Campus
Library, offers one-on-one consultations to writers preparing documents, slides, or oral
presentations. UWC consultations are highly recommended but are not required. Help is available
for all of the steps of the writing and speechwriting process including assistance with brainstorming
ideas, narrowing the topic, creating outlines or drafts, and presenting a speech to an audience.
UWC consultants can help you practice your speech with a real audience or develop visual
presentation aids like slides and handouts. Consultants can also help you improve your
proofreading and editing skills. If you visit the UWC, take a copy of your assignment, a hard copy
of your draft or any notes you may have, as well as any material you need help with. To find out
more about UWC services or to schedule an appointment, call 458-1455, visit the web page at
[http://writingcenter.tamu.edu/](http://writingcenter.tamu.edu/), or stop by in person.

## Diversity Statement

It is my intent that students from all diverse backgrounds and perspectives be well-served by this course, that students' learning needs be addressed both in and out of class, and that the diversity that students bring to this class be viewed as a resource, strength, and benefit. It is my intent to present materials and activities that are respectful of diversity: gender, sexual orientation, disability, age, religion, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, culture, perspective, and other background characteristics. I encourage your suggestions about how to improve the value of diversity in this course.

# Old Schedule
{:.page-header}

**How To Read This Schedule:** All readings will be completed before class on the date on which they are assigned. Anything in **bold** is work to be completed before class and brought with you on the day listed. Paper due dates, also in **bold**, indicate that the completed manuscript of your paper must be in the correct dropbox on eCampus *before* class starts on the day indicated.

<div class="schedule">
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 1<small class="schedule__week-title"> Introduction</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 01/13</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Course Overview</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 01/15</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Joanna Russ, <a href="http://boblyman.net/englt392/texts/When%20It%20Changed.pdf">“When It Changed”</a></li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 01/17</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Edgar Rice Burroughs, <em>A Princess of Mars</em> (1912), Ch. 1-7</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 2<small class="schedule__week-title"> Planetary Romance</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 01/20</strong></p>
	<p><strong>No Class</strong></p>

<p><em>MLK Day</em></p>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 01/22</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Edgar Rice Burroughs, <em>A Princess of Mars</em> (1912), Ch. 8-14</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 01/24</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Edgar Rice Burroughs, <em>A Princess of Mars</em> (1912), Ch. 15-21</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 3<small class="schedule__week-title"> The Engineer & The Unknown</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 01/27</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Edgar Rice Burroughs, <em>A Princess of Mars</em> (1912), Rest</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 01/29</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Hugo Gernsback, <a href="https://manifold.umn.edu/read/the-perversity-of-things-hugo-gernsback-on-media-tinkering-and-scientifiction/section/c39d8a96-dc8e-4b66-ae16-1672e4023d67">“The Magnetic Storm”</a> (1918)</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 01/31</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Finish Gernsback</li>
  <li>H.P. Lovecraft, <a href="http://www.hplovecraft.com/writings/texts/fiction/cs.aspx">“The Colour Out of Space”</a> (1927)</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 4<small class="schedule__week-title"> The Golden Age Dawns</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 02/03</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Finish Lovecraft</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 02/05</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li><strong>No Class</strong></li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 02/07</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>C.L. Moore, <a href="https://ia800700.us.archive.org/11/items/Shambleau19331948/ShambleauByC.L.Moore1948_text.pdf">“Shambleau”</a> (1933)</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 5<small class="schedule__week-title"> SF Matures</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 02/10</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Finish Moore</li>
  <li>A.E. van Vogt, “Black Destroyer”</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 02/12</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Finish van Vogt</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 02/14</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Judith Merril, “That Only a Mother” (1948)</li>
  <li><strong>Paper #1 Due</strong></li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 6<small class="schedule__week-title"> The New Wave</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 02/17</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Finish Merril</li>
  <li>Robert Heinlein, <a href="https://emilkirkegaard.dk/en/wp-content/uploads/Robert-A.-Heinlein-All-You-Zombies.pdf">”’—All You Zombies—’”</a> (1958)</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 02/19</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Finish Heinlein</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 02/21</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Pamela Zoline, <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20060207070257/www.scifi.com/scifiction/classics/classics_archive/zoline/zoline1.html">“The Heat Death of the Universe”</a> (1967)</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 7<small class="schedule__week-title"> Alienation</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 02/24</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Finish Zoline</li>
  <li>Samuel R. Delaney, <a href="http://classes.dma.ucla.edu/Fall10/157A/wp-content/uploads/timeDelany_01.pdf">“Time Considered as a Helix of Semi-Precious Stones”</a> (1968)</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 02/26</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Finish Delaney</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 02/28</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>James Tiptree, Jr., <a href="http://valerie.debill.org/Hosting/The_Women_Men_Dont_See.pdf">“The Women Men Don’t See”</a></li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 8<small class="schedule__week-title"> Novels Become Important</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 03/02</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Finish Tiptree</li>
  <li>Philip K. Dick, <em>Ubik</em> (1969), Ch. 1-5</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 03/04</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Philip K. Dick, <em>Ubik</em> (1969), Ch. 6-9</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 03/06</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Philip K. Dick, <em>Ubik</em> (1969), Ch. 10-12</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 9<small class="schedule__week-title"> Spring Break</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 03/09</strong></p>
	<p><strong>No Class</strong></p>

<p><em>Spring Break</em></p>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 03/11</strong></p>
	<p><strong>No Class</strong></p>

<p><em>Spring Break</em></p>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 03/13</strong></p>
	<p><strong>No Class</strong></p>

<p><em>Spring Break</em></p>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 10<small class="schedule__week-title"> More Novels</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 03/16</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>No Class</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 03/18</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>No Class</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 03/20</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>No Class</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 11<small class="schedule__week-title"> A More Nuanced Utopia</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 03/23</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Ursula K. Le Guin, <em>The Left Hand of Darkness</em> (1969), Ch. 1-6</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 03/25</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Ursula K. Le Guin, <em>The Left Hand of Darkness</em> (1969), Ch. 7-14</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 03/27</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Ursula K. Le Guin, <em>The Left Hand of Darkness</em> (1969), Rest</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 12<small class="schedule__week-title"> Cyberpunk</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 03/30</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Ursula K. Le Guin, <em>The Left Hand of Darkness</em> (1969), Rest</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 04/01</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>No Class</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 04/03</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>William Gibson, <em>Neuromancer</em> (1984), Ch. 1-7</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 13<small class="schedule__week-title"> Dystopia?</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 04/06</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>William Gibson, <em>Neuromancer</em> (1984), Ch. 8-15</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 04/08</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>William Gibson, <em>Neuromancer</em> (1984), Rest</li>
  <li><strong>Paper #2 due</strong></li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 04/10</strong></p>
	<p><strong>No Class</strong></p>

<p><em>Reading Day</em></p>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 14<small class="schedule__week-title"> Histories of Alternate Pasts</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 04/13</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>William Gibson, <em>Neuromancer</em> (1984), Rest</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 04/15</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Octavia Butler, <a href="https://www.unl.edu/english/docs/englishweek17/engl200-speechsounds.pdf">“Speech Sounds”</a> (1983)</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 04/17</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Finish Buttler</li>
  <li>P. Djèlí Clark, <em>The Black God’s Drums</em> (2018)
	<ul>
	  <li>Read to section that ends “She glares as if I’ve not made a bit of sense, but follows me into the building.” (p. 57)</li>
	</ul>
  </li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 15<small class="schedule__week-title"> Sad Robots are the Future</small></h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 04/20</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>P. Djèlí Clark, <em>The Black God’s Drums</em> (2018), Rest</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Wed 04/22</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>P. Djèlí Clark, <em>The Black God’s Drums</em> (2018), Rest</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Fri 04/24</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Martha Wells, <em>All Systems Red</em> (2018), Ch. 1-4</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div> <!-- /.mdl-grid -->
<div class="mdl-grid">
  <h2 class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--12-col schedule__week">Week 16</h2>
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Mon 04/27</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Martha Wells, <em>All Systems Red</em> (2018), Rest</li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
  <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col ">
	<p><strong>Tue 04/28</strong></p>
	<ul>
  <li>Martha Wells, <em>All Systems Red</em> (2018), Rest</li>
  <li><strong>Paper #3 due 05/04</strong></li>
</ul>

  </div> <!-- .mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col -->
</div><!-- /.schedule -->

# Schedule

{% include schedule.html schedule="engl334spr2020" %}