---
title: Syllabus
course:
  term: Fall 2020
  description: |
    This course studies the return of interest in rhetorical theory and rhetorical training in the 20th century. There are three units: 1) we explore various texts that situate modern life (cities, cars, and mass media, especially) as a problem that rhetoric can solve; 2) we look at some theories of persuasion that respond specifically to these various challenges; 3) we use these theories to explore a rhetorical case study.
  number: ENGL 354
  title: Modern Rhetorical Theory
  meetings:
    - time: MWF 12:00-12:50
      location: Online
instructors:
  - name: Andrew Pilsch
    email: apilsch@tamu.edu
    office:
      - hours: MWF 10:15-11:15
        location: Zoom
layout: syllabus
---

# Course Learning Outcomes

This semester, students can expect:

* To learn about the development of rhetorical theory during the twentieth century
* To understand methods of rhetorical analysis
* To use these methods to understand cultural artifacts
* To identify problems in communication that persuasion can help solve

# Class Procedures

## Other Location of Class Information

In addition to this syllabus, course information will be posted on our class [Canvas shell](https://canvas.tamu.edu). This additional information is required and will include:

* Readings not linked in the schedule below
	* As `.PDF` files in "Readings"
* Turn-in locations for all papers
	* Located in "Turn-In"
* [Group Discussion](#discussion-groups) Boards:
	* [Exit Tickets](#twice-weekly-exit-tickets)
	* [Wrap-Up Posts](#weekly-wrap-up-posts)
	* [Peer Review](#peer-review)
* Course Discussion Boards:
	* Q&A Board -- Course-related discussions
	* Watercooler Board -- Off-topic discussions
	* [State-of-the-Board Posts](#once-a-semester-state-of-the-board-post)

## Structure of the Week

Each week, we have three class meetings. **Monday** and **Wednesday** meetings are guided discussion days. I will be providing background on each reading on Monday and then we will spend class walking through a list of quotes from the text in order to generate a reading of the text, both fitting it into the larger narrative of persuasion in the 20th century and for what the text can teach us about the nature of modern argumentation. **Friday** classes will be open discussion. I will come with a list questions generated from your [Exit Tickets](#twice-weekly-exit-tickets) for the week. This will also be your time to ask any lingering questions you still have around the material.

### Exceptions

Before papers are due, **Friday** classes will be reserved for conducting asynchronous [Peer Review](#peer-review). There will be no class meeting that day, though I will be on email to answer any questions generated by peer review.

## Reading Expectations

In the past, I have been guilty of assigning too much reading in this course. In both the interest of adapting to our online environs but also as part of a general audit of this course, I have *greatly* reduced the readings this semester (by more than half). As such, I expect you to complete the reading each week. You will be required to read half of the material for **Monday** classes and to finish the reading for **Wednesday**. You will also be expected to come prepared to discuss the material, so take reading notes if you need them.

# Textbook and Resource Materials

*None required for this course*

# Assignments

The assignments for this class, including final grade percentages, are listed in the table below. Anything not listed on this table will not be graded. *There is no final exam in this class*.

| Assignment                            | Due Date          | Value |
|---------------------------------------|-------------------|-------|
| Introduction Assignment               | Weekly            | 1%    |
| Discussion Groups: Exit Tickets       | Weekly            | 10%   |
| Discussion Groups: Weekly Wrap-up     | Weekly            | 10%   |
| Discussion Groups: State of the Board | Once Per Semester | 19%   |
| Discussion Groups: Online Peer-Review | Before Each Paper | 10%   |
| Paper 1: Contemporary Rhetoric        | Oct 05, 2020      | 25%   |
| Paper 2: Rhetorical Analysis          | Dec 08, 2020      | 25%   |

## Introduction Assignment

By the end of the day (11:59 p.m.) on the first Friday of class, you need to post an introduction on the introduction board in Canvas. This short post will introduce you to your classmates and needs to consist of the following information:

1. Your preferred name and pronouns
1. Any "fun-facts" about yourself you feel comfortable sharing with the class, such as:
	* Class standing
	* Home town
	* Favorite movie, music, video games, etc.
	* Fandoms you belong to
	* Favorite taco
	* **Anything Else**
1. Your reason for taking this course. I will use this to try and sort you into [discussion groups](#discussion-groups) based on shared interests. Interests might include:
	* Wanting to know more about rhetoric
	* Wanting to become a better writer
	* An interest in politics or the law
	* **Anything Else**

## Discussion Groups

You will be divided into groups of five students. These small discussion groups will be your first point of contact if you have any questions about course content. This will also be the groups for peer-review.

You have a number of group tasks to complete during the semester, outlined below.

I will also allow group sign-up, so if you have a group of friends you would like to work with, feel free to sign-up for a group with them. Otherwise, I will be using the responses to your introduction assignment to group you, as best as I can.

### Twice-Weekly Exit Tickets

For each day there is assigned reading (Mondays & Wednesdays), during the final five minutes of class, you will post a question to our discussion board that you wished had been answered in class. I will use these to structure our [open discussion](#structure-of-the-week) on Fridays.

If you cannot attend class, please post a question based on something that challenged or confused or fascinated you in the reading.

### Weekly Wrap-up Posts

On Fridays, you will post the quote you consider the most important from the week's reading. And explain why. This explanation should be roughly 250 words and explain your reasoning for why you think the quote you have chosen is important.

You may use a quotation from the course slides, but you are not required to do so.

### Weekly Wrap-up Comments

Your group discussion board is a place to discuss class issues in small groups. You **should** want to use it to work on your understanding of the material, but you will be required to make at least one comment per week in response to another class mate's post. This comment needs to be substantive, going beyond agreeing or disagreeing but asking for detailed clarification or explaining in more depth the issue around the quote in question.

### Once-a-Semester State of the Board Post

Every two weeks, one of your group members will be appointed leader. It will be the leader's job to facilitate conversation on the board and make sure people are staying on task. At the end of your period as leader, you will post a 500-1000 word wrap-up summarizing your board's discussion of important quotes and questions.

### Peer Review

In advance of both papers, you will be required to read and provide feedback on the draft papers in your groups. This means that you both have to have a reasonably completed draft in advance of the due date for the paper and take the time to read each draft. If a group member fails to turn in a draft by the agreed-upon deadline set by your group, you will not be penalized for not completing a peer review report for your classmate.

If you plan to take an [extension](#extension-policy) on an assignment, negotiate modified peer review deadlines amongst yourselves.

## Paper 1: Contemporary Rhetoric

We have identified a number of problems in the first few decades of the 20th century that make the practice of rhetoric and the study of persuasion crucial for the functioning of a mediated society. What is the single most important issue today that you think require a new theory of persuasion?

In an argumentative essay, discuss your problem, explaining what it is, giving some background on the issue, and why it is a problem that can be addressed through persuasion. You will need to rely on outside sources to support your argument, whether these are scholarly arguments about the topic, technical sources to add background detail, or popular sources to provide examples or to dimensionalize the problem.

## Paper 2: Rhetorical Analysis

For this assignment, you will write what is called a rhetorical analysis. In a rhetorical analysis, the strategies of persuasion of a particular cultural object are evaluated to explain why (or why not) a particular cultural artifact is (or is not successful) at being persuasive. Rhetorical analyses could study speeches by a politician or advertising slogans in a soda commercial; they can look at paintings, books, or anything else that participates in the creation and circulation of cultural myths.

Specifically, I want you to find a cultural object (defined how you want, subject to my approval). Then, I want you to identify the appeals the object is making to its audience. Pay special attention to the theories of rhetoric we have identified this semester.

# Schedule

**Note:** Course readings that are not links are posted on the "Course Resources" page in [Canvas](https://canvas.tamu.edu).

{% include schedule.html %}

{% include policies-fall2020.md %}
