---
title: Syllabus
hidden: true
course:
  term: Spring 2020
  description: 'A Description of your awesome course!

    '
  number: ENGL 683
instructors:
- name: Andrew Pilsch
  email: apilsch@tamu.edu
  office:
  - hours: ''
    location: MWF 12:45-1:45
layout: syllabus
---

# Assignments

## Values

| Assignment             | Due Date | Value |
|------------------------|----------|-------|
| Attendance             | Ongoing  |  10%  |
| Book Presentation      | Various  |  15%  |
| Proposal               | XX/XX    |  10%  |
| In-class Presentation  | 04/20-27 |  15%  |
| Final Paper            | 04/29    |  50%  |
{:.mdl-data-table.mdl-js-data-table.mdl-data-table--wide}

## Book Presentation

Throughout the semester (see [schedule](schedule.html) for specific dates), each of you will be required to present a short overview and evaluation of a book of German media theory or a work drawing on the methods of German media theory. You will be required to find a copy of the book (several of which are not in the library catalog and will need to be borrowed via ILL), read it, and present a seven minute summary and evaluation of the book. Focus on giving us the basic argument, background on the author, *and* how the book contributes or may contribute specifically to the kinds of projects we do in English.

For the in-class presentation, feel free to use slides or produce a handout. In addition to the presentation, you will need to produce a 2 to 3 page account of your book. This should conform to the general standards of an academic book review.

* Wolfgang Ernst, *Sonic Time Machines*
* Eva Horn, *The Secret War: Treason, Espionage, and Modern Fiction*
* Eva Horn, *The Future as Catastrophe: Imagining Disaster in the Modern Age*
* Markus Krajewski, *World Projects: Global Information Before World War*
* Markus Krajewski, *Paper Machines: About Cards & Catalogs, 1548–1929*
* Markus Krajewski, *The Server: A Media History from the Present to the Baroque*
* Claus Pias, *Computer Game Worlds*
* Cornelia Vismann, *Files: Law and Media Technology*
* Siegfried Zielinski, *Audiovisions: Cinema and Television as Entr’actes in History*
* Vilém Flusser, *The Philosophy of Photography*
* Vilém Flusser, *Vampyroteuthyis Infernalis*
* Lori Emerson, *Reading Writing Interfaces: From the Digital to the Bookbound*
* Lisa Gitelman, *Paper Knowledge: Toward a Media History of the Document*
* Lisa Gitelman, *Scripts, Grooves, and Writing Machines: Representing Technology in the Edison Era*
* Aaron Jaffe, *Spoiler Alert: A Critical Guide*
* Jussi Parikka, *Geology of Media*

## Proposal

In advance of both the final paper and the in-class presentations that will conclude our class, you are required to submit a proposal. However, as with conference proposals, this proposal needs to be a *group* proposal. As you start to emerge ideas for final papers, you will need to group yourselves into panels of 3 (or 4, depending on class enrollment) and, together, submit a proposal for an end-of-class panel.

The proposal needs to contain 100-300 word overviews of each paper's argument in addition to 200-400 words on the justification of the panel. The panel you propose also needs to be titled. I will be circulating a conference program before our presentations, so make sure your panel title is good.

Writing a panel proposal is often a subtle art. On the one hand, the three papers may not actually work all that well together. On the other hand, you can't let me (playing the role of a conference program committee) know that these papers not actually fit together. Part of the challenge of this assignment, and part of what you will be evaluated on, is how well the three papers cohere into a single argument, which will be the focus for the panel.

## In-Class Presentation

During the final days of class, you will be presenting a ten minute version of your paper. This can be the first part of the paper (if it isn't written yet) along with a summary of the remainder of the argument. It can be a reading of a portion of the paper (say the middle), with a similar summary at the beginning and end. It can also be an entirely off-the-cuff discussion of your paper.

Use of slides or hand-outs is strongly encouraged.

As you will be assembling yourselves into panels, one of you will need to volunteer to chair. Chairing involves introducing each speaker (either all at once at the beginning or between papers, as you see fit) and moderating the Q&A.

*On presentation days you are required to ask a question to a panel other than your own in order to register your attendance for the day.*

## Final Paper

You will write a conference-length paper, roughly 3000 words in length, for the final paper. These papers can comment on an issue in the corpus we have read, offer a reading making use of some of the theories discussed, or respond, in some other way, to course content.


# Books

The following books are required for this course. You may use an eBook or library book for your readings, however you will be required to have a copy with you on the days we discuss each text.

* Friedrich Kittler, *Gramophone, Film, Typewriter*
* Siegfried Zielinski, *The Deep Time of Media*
* Vilém Flusser, *Into the Universe of Technical Images*

# Schedule

{% include schedule.html schedule="engl683spr2020" %}