---
hidden: true
layout: syllabus
title: Syllabus
---
# Assignments

## Assignment Values

| Assignment                            | Due Date | Value |
|---------------------------------------|----------|-------|
| Paper 1: Modern Rhetoric              | 02/22    | 40%   |
| Take-home Exam 1: Rhetorical Theories | 03/26    | 20%   |
| Paper 2: Case Study Analysis          | 04/30    | 40%   |

## Paper 1: Modern Rhetoric

We have identified a number of problems in the first few decades of the 20th century that make the practice of rhetoric and the study of persuasion crucial for the functioning of a mediated society. What is the single most important issue today that you think require a new theory of persuasion?

In an argumentative essay, discuss your problem, explaining what it is, giving some background on the issue, and why it is a problem that can be addressed through persuasion. You will need to rely on outside sources to support your argument, whether these are scholarly arguments about the topic, technical sources to add background detail, or popular sources to provide examples or to dimensionalize the problem.

## Take-home Exam 1: Rhetorical Theories

*This exam will be open-note and you will have 24 hours to complete it.*

You will be supplied with a list of quotes from the material we have discussed in class so far. These will be quotes we talked about in class. For each quote, identify the following information:

1. Author of the quote
1. Full title of the work in which quote appears
1. Explain the importance of the quote to the argument of the work
1. In one page of double-spaced text, summarize the author's full argument and what they contribute to a theory of argument

## Paper 2: Case Study Analysis

For this assignment, you will write what is called a rhetorical analysis. In a rhetorical analysis, the strategies of persuasion of a particular cultural object are evaluated to explain why (or why not) a particular cultural artifact is (or is not successful) at being persuasive. Rhetorical analyses could study speeches by a politician or advertising slogans in a soda commercial; they can look at paintings, books, or anything else that participates in the creation and circulation of cultural myths.

Specifically, I want you to find a cultural object relating to food in some fashion (defined how you want, subject to my approval). Then, I want you to identify the appeals the object is making to its audience. Pay special attention to the theories of rhetoric we have identified this semester.

# Schedule

{% include schedule.html %}

{% include policies-fall2021.md %}
