---
layout: syllabus
title: Syllabus
---

## Course Prerequisites

None

## Special Course Designation

Counts toward the [DH Certificate](https://dhcertificate.tamu.edu/)

# Textbooks

## Required

Any edition is fine for either text.

* [*Jurassic Park*](https://www.google.com/books/edition/Jurassic_Park/MNeEFe9qU3cC?hl=en&gbpv=0) by Michael Crichton (1990)
* [*Close to the Machine*](https://www.google.com/books/edition/Close_to_the_Machine/Nc58pe_KSQAC?hl=en&gbpv=0) by Ellen Ullman (1997)

## Optional

The following books are available through the library or free online as eBooks. If you prefer paper copies, you are welcome to acquire them:

* McKenzie Wark, [*Hacker Manifesto*](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/tamucs/detail.action?docID=3300116)
* Safiya Umoja Noble, [*Algorithms of Oppression*](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/tamucs/detail.action?docID=483426)

# Assignments

| Assignment            | Due Date     | Value |
|-----------------------|--------------|-------|
| Participation         | Continuous   | 10%   |
| Software Presentation | Continuous   | 15%   |
| Position Papers       | See Schedule | 30%   |
| Final Paper           | 2020.05.07   | 45%   |

## Participation

In addition to attendance, I expect participation from each of you. This participation can take the form of raising your hand in Zoom and asking a question of the text or of our discussion, answering or responding to someone else in class or to something I said, and of asking questions or responding in the chat via Zoom.

## Software Presentation

Once during the semester, you will be asked to deliver a ten minute talk on a piece of software important to your work or your discipline. Any piece of software (including video games) is available for discussion.

The talk should cover the history, use, purpose, and any other relevant information. Background on the program's creation, current user culture, or other information about broader context is also welcome.

If the software is open source, discuss the users or groups that created it. If the software is closed source, discuss the company that developed it.

Given our distributed nature this semester, if you would prefer to record your talk as a screen cast and distribute it before class (thereby tempting neither the vagaries of Zoom nor Brazos Valley Internet reliability), that is strongly encouraged, though not required.

The talk needs to be accompanied by slides with screenshots or pre-recorded video of the program in action. **[Do not attempt to demo the program in front of the class](https://media.tenor.com/images/14b636b53adb4f65f99ff7d42a86672b/tenor.gif)**.

## Position Papers

Twice (in weeks 6 and 12), you will produce a short paper (2-3 pages, double-spaced) that takes a position on a particular selection from one of the texts we have read so far in class.

These papers will cover material that has already been discussed in class but has not been covered by a position paper. The first paper, due at the start of week 6, will cover material from the first five weeks of class. The second paper will cover texts from week 6 through week 11.

These position papers ask you to show insights and raise questions in response to the reading and course discussions. Papers that merely summarize an argument or restate the selected passage will receive a failing grade. You need to explain why the passage in question is thought-provoking, or unsettling, or unclear and suggest how you respond to this challenge.

## Final Paper

For the final paper, you will produce an argumentative or historical paper about some aspect of the course subject. The topic can respond to course readings and course discussion, or it can deal with some other aspect of software culture in your field of study or within your discipline.

Seminar papers should be 20 pages (give or take 5 pages), include sources documented in MLA format, and should constitute a polished, focused, and sustained argument on a particular topic.

Digital projects that respond to course themes are also welcome, please consult me via email or in office hours, should you wish to pursue such a project.

# Course Schedule

{% include schedule.html %}

{% include policies.md %}

# Spring 2021 Policy Addendum

## Campus Safety Measures

To promote public safety and protect students, faculty, and staff during the coronavirus pandemic, Texas A&amp;M University has adopted policies and practices for the Spring 2021 academic term to limit virus transmission. Students must observe the following practices while participating in face-to-face courses and course-related activities (office hours, help sessions, transitioning to and between classes, study spaces, academic services, etc.):

* Self-monitoring—Students should follow CDC recommendations for self-monitoring. Students who have a fever or exhibit symptoms of COVID-19 should participate in class remotely if that option is available, and should not participate in face-to-face instruction.
* Face Coverings—[Face coverings](https://rules-saps.tamu.edu/PDFs/34.99.99.M0.03.pdf) (cloth face covering, surgical mask, etc.) must be properly worn in all non-private spaces including classrooms, teaching laboratories, common spaces such as lobbies and hallways, public study spaces, libraries, academic resource and support offices, and outdoor spaces where 6 feet of physical distancing is difficult to reliably maintain. Description of face coverings and additional guidance are provided in the [Face Covering policy](https://rules-saps.tamu.edu/PDFs/34.99.99.M0.03.pdf) and [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)](https://provost.tamu.edu/Menu/News/TAMU-Face-Covering-FAQs) available on the [Provost website](https://provost.tamu.edu/Menu/News/TAMU-Face-Covering-FAQs).
* Physical Distancing—Physical distancing must be maintained between students, instructors, and others in course and course-related activities.
* Classroom Ingress/Egress—Students must follow marked pathways for entering and exiting classrooms and other teaching spaces. Leave classrooms promptly after course activities have concluded. Do not congregate in hallways and maintain 6-foot physical distancing when waiting to enter classrooms and other instructional spaces.
* To attend a face-to-face class, students must properly wear an approved face covering If a student refuses to wear a face covering, the instructor should ask the student to leave and join the class remotely. If the student does not leave the class, the faculty member should report that student to the [Student Conduct office](https://studentlife.tamu.edu/sco/face-covering-violations/) for sanctions. Additionally, the faculty member may choose to teach that day's class remotely for all students, or dismiss the class in the case of a traditional face to face lecture.

## Personal Illness and Quarantine

Students required to quarantine must participate in courses and course-related activities remotely, if that option is available, and must not attend face-to-face course activities. Students should notify their instructors of the quarantine requirement. Students under quarantine are expected to participate in courses and complete graded work unless they have symptoms that are too severe to participate in course activities.  Students experiencing personal injury or Illness that is too severe for the student to attend class qualify for an excused absence ([See Student Rule 7, Section 7.2.2.](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07/)) To receive an excused absence, students must comply with the documentation and notification guidelines outlined in Student Rule 7.
