---
layout: syllabus
title: Syllabus
---

## Course Prerequisites

None

## Special Course Designation

This course is **Writing Intensive (W)**

## Course Learning Outcomes

Through reading, discussion, and coursework, students can expect to learn to:

* Formulate questions for generating and sustaining analytical conversations about literature
* Take a position on an issue in a particular text
* Articulate positions in persuasive essays, utilizing evidence and rhetoric
* Identify recurring themes across a variety of texts
* Synthesize evidence to establish how themes change between authors and why this matters

# Textbooks

* [*The Future is Female*](https://www.google.com/books/edition/The_Future_Is_Female_25_Classic_Science/l19EDwAAQBAJ?hl=en&gbpv=0) ed. Lisa Yaszek (2018)
* [*Sisters of the Revolution*](https://www.google.com/books/edition/Sisters_of_the_Revolution/xU9SCAAAQBAJ?hl=en&gbpv=0) ed. Ann VanderMeer & Jeff VanderMeer (2015)

# Assignments

| Assignment            | Due Date     | Percent Value |
|-----------------------|--------------|---------------|
| Participation         | Continuous   | 10%           |
| Entry Ticket          | Continuous   | 20%           |
| Position Papers (3)   | See Schedule | 30%           |
| Thematic Analysis (2) | See Schedule | 40%           |

## Entry Ticket

Thirty minutes before the start of class on the days in which readings are assigned (Mondays and Wednesdays this semester), you will need to post a discussion question to that week's discussion board on our Canvas site. These questions will help start our conversation and will help to structure our knowledge of the course topic as we move forward.

Each question needs to be generative but can be specific. If you don't understand a particular scene or wonder why the writer chose to portray a particular detail in a particular way, ask. If you notice a theme developing across several readings and find it reflected in this story, ask.

## Position Papers (3)

Three times (in weeks 5, 9, and 13), you will produce a short paper (2-3 pages, double-spaced) that takes a position on a particular selection from one of the texts we have read so far in class.

These papers will cover material that has already been discussed in class but has not been covered by a position paper. The first paper, due at the start of week 5, will cover material from the first four weeks of class. The second paper will cover texts from week 5 through week 8; third covers weeks 10 through the end.

These position papers ask you to show insights and raise questions in response to the reading and course discussions. Papers that merely summarize an argument or restate the selected passage will receive a failing grade. You need to explain why the passage in question is thought-provoking, or unsettling, or unclear and suggest how you respond to this challenge.

## Thematic Analysis (2)

Twice in the semester, you will produce a longer paper (4-5 pages, double-spaced) that analyzes the role of a shared theme across at least two works read to that point in the semester. Any works read during the semester may be included in either paper.

Thematic papers should begin with an introduction of the theme, what is it, how is it discussed, what are the stakes, etc.? The introduction needs to also identify the works to be discussed, identifying the author and providing a **brief** summary of the plot. Your audience for this summary should be someone who has read the work but not recently and needs reminding of the overall nature of the plot (relevant characters, a 1-2 sentence summary of the action, etc).

The body of the paper will use **textual evidence** to illustrate how each text explores or relates to the theme, using the general terms you established in the introduction. You can establish the relationship to theme using a discussion of style, imagery, or plot, or some combination of all three.

Having exemplified the theme in the two (or more) texts, conclude by explaining what important claims can be made about the similarities or differences in treatment by the two (or more) texts: if they each discuss love differently, what can that tell us about the nature of love? If they explore violence the same, what does that tell us? The conclusion should be addressing the larger issues of society in general, opening the argument out to the social arena outside the text, showing how the interplay between the two texts reveals something larger about the world.

# Course Schedule

{% include schedule.html %}

# Course Policies

## Email Hours

I am available to answer email from 9:00am until 5:00pm Monday through Friday. Emails arriving outside of that time will be answered at my earliest convenience, but do not count on a quick answer to emails sent late at night or on the weekends.

## Late Work

Under Student Rule 7.4, I am under "under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to make up work missed because of an unexcused absence." However, I do accept late work and will take off 5 points for every day late. A paper that would have received an 85% that was 3 days late will receive a 70%.

### Extension Policy

Additionally, if you are falling behind on a project and feel that you are not going to finish on time, email me 24 hours before the assignment is due to request an extension. In this email, propose how many additional days you will need to finish the assignment. Requests for extension that do not contain this information will not be honored.

### Technology

In the 21st century, it is unreasonable to accept "my computer died" as an excuse for late work. If you are working on assignments on a computer, please back up your work offsite. Sites such as [Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/) and [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/) provide space for storing copies of your work; even a USB drive can be enough. I have recently started using [BackBlaze](https://www.backblaze.com/) and found it to be a great and inexpensive online, automated backup. Save multiple times throughout each work session to both your backup and your computer's copy. In this class, I hold you accountable for making sure your technology is working correctly.

# University Policies

## Attendance Policy

The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all assignments. 

Please refer to [Student Rule 7](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07/) in its entirety for information about excused absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.

## Makeup Work Policy

Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or when attendance contributes to a student's grade, for the reasons stated in Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor. 

Please refer to [Student Rule 7](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07/) in its entirety for information about makeup work, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.

Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor" ([Student Rule 7, Section 7.4.1](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07)).

"The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to make up work missed because of an unexcused absence" ([Student Rule 7, Section 7.4.2](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07)).

Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. (See [Student Rule 24](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule24/).)

## Academic Integrity Statement and Policy

"An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do."

"Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one's work, should the instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct case" ([Section 20.1.2.3, Student Rule 20](https://aggiehonor.tamu.edu/Rules-and-Procedures/Rules/Honor-System-Rules)).

You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures, academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at [aggiehonor.tamu.edu](https://aggiehonor.tamu.edu/).

## Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy

Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a disability or think you may have a disability, please contact Disability Resources in the Student Services Building or at (979) 845-1637 or visit [disability.tamu.edu](https://disability.tamu.edu/). Disabilities may include, but are not limited to attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability related needs with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.

## Title IX and Statement on Limits to Confidentiality

Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit gender-based discrimination and sexual harassment, including sexual assault, sexual exploitation, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking.

With the exception of some medical and mental health providers, all university employees (including full and part-time faculty, staff, paid graduate assistants, student workers, etc.) are Mandatory Reporters and must report to the Title IX Office if the employee experiences, observes, or becomes aware of an incident that meets the following conditions (see [University Rule 08.01.01.M1](https://rules-saps.tamu.edu/PDFs/08.01.01.M1.pdf)):

*   The incident is reasonably believed to be discrimination or harassment. 
*   The incident is alleged to have been committed by or against a person who, at the time of the incident, was (1) a student enrolled at the University or (2) an employee of the University. 

Mandatory Reporters must file a report regardless of how the information comes to their attention – including but not limited to face-to-face conversations, a written class assignment or paper, class discussion, email, text, or social media post. Although Mandatory Reporters must file a report, in most instances, you will be able to control how the report is handled, including whether or not to pursue a formal investigation. The University's goal is to make sure you are aware of the range of options available to you and to ensure access to the resources you need.

Students wishing to discuss concerns in a confidential setting are encouraged to make an appointment with [Counseling and Psychological Services](https://caps.tamu.edu/) (CAPS). 

Students can learn more about filing a report, accessing supportive resources, and navigating the Title IX investigation and resolution process on the University's [Title IX webpage](https://titleix.tamu.edu/).

## Statement on Mental Health and Wellness

Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors that influence a student's academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are encouraged to engage in proper self-care by utilizing the resources and services available from Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS). Students who need someone to talk to can call the TAMU Helpline (979-845-2700) from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. weekdays and 24 hours on weekends. 24-hour emergency help is also available through the National Suicide Prevention Hotline (800-273-8255) or at [suicidepreventionlifeline.org](https://suicidepreventionlifeline.org/). 

# Department Policies

## University Writing Center

The mission of the University Writing Center (UWC) is to help you develop and refine the communication skills vital to success in college and beyond. You can choose to work with a trained UWC peer consultant in person or via web conference or email. Consultants can help with everything from lab reports to application essays and at any stage of your process, from brainstorming to reviewing the final draft. You can also get help with public speaking, presentations, and group projects. The UWC's main location is on the second floor of Evans Library; there's also a walk-in location on the second floor of the Business Library & Collaboration Commons. To schedule an appointment or view our helpful handouts and videos, visit [writingcenter.tamu.edu](https://writingcenter.tamu.edu). Or call 979-458-1455.

## Diversity Statement

It is my intent that students from all diverse backgrounds and perspectives be well-served by this course, that students' learning needs be addressed both in and out of class, and that the diversity that students bring to this class be viewed as a resource, strength, and benefit. It is my intent to present materials and activities that are respectful of diversity: gender, sexual orientation, disability, age, religion, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, culture, perspective, and other background characteristics. I encourage your suggestions about how to improve the value of diversity in this course.

# Spring 2021 Policy Addendum

## Campus Safety Measures

To promote public safety and protect students, faculty, and staff during the coronavirus pandemic, Texas A&amp;M University has adopted policies and practices for the Spring 2021 academic term to limit virus transmission. Students must observe the following practices while participating in face-to-face courses and course-related activities (office hours, help sessions, transitioning to and between classes, study spaces, academic services, etc.):

* Self-monitoring—Students should follow CDC recommendations for self-monitoring. Students who have a fever or exhibit symptoms of COVID-19 should participate in class remotely if that option is available, and should not participate in face-to-face instruction.
* Face Coverings—[Face coverings](https://rules-saps.tamu.edu/PDFs/34.99.99.M0.03.pdf) (cloth face covering, surgical mask, etc.) must be properly worn in all non-private spaces including classrooms, teaching laboratories, common spaces such as lobbies and hallways, public study spaces, libraries, academic resource and support offices, and outdoor spaces where 6 feet of physical distancing is difficult to reliably maintain. Description of face coverings and additional guidance are provided in the [Face Covering policy](https://rules-saps.tamu.edu/PDFs/34.99.99.M0.03.pdf) and [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)](https://provost.tamu.edu/Menu/News/TAMU-Face-Covering-FAQs) available on the [Provost website](https://provost.tamu.edu/Menu/News/TAMU-Face-Covering-FAQs).
* Physical Distancing—Physical distancing must be maintained between students, instructors, and others in course and course-related activities.
* Classroom Ingress/Egress—Students must follow marked pathways for entering and exiting classrooms and other teaching spaces. Leave classrooms promptly after course activities have concluded. Do not congregate in hallways and maintain 6-foot physical distancing when waiting to enter classrooms and other instructional spaces.
* To attend a face-to-face class, students must properly wear an approved face covering If a student refuses to wear a face covering, the instructor should ask the student to leave and join the class remotely. If the student does not leave the class, the faculty member should report that student to the [Student Conduct office](https://studentlife.tamu.edu/sco/face-covering-violations/) for sanctions. Additionally, the faculty member may choose to teach that day's class remotely for all students, or dismiss the class in the case of a traditional face to face lecture.

## Personal Illness and Quarantine

Students required to quarantine must participate in courses and course-related activities remotely, if that option is available, and must not attend face-to-face course activities. Students should notify their instructors of the quarantine requirement. Students under quarantine are expected to participate in courses and complete graded work unless they have symptoms that are too severe to participate in course activities.  Students experiencing personal injury or Illness that is too severe for the student to attend class qualify for an excused absence ([See Student Rule 7, Section 7.2.2.](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07/)) To receive an excused absence, students must comply with the documentation and notification guidelines outlined in Student Rule 7.
